cold weather and a blanket of snow have
left a short of food so she's been
forced to hunt in the day
and now she's got competition a Kestrel
it's one of the downsides of hunting
during the daylight hours and even worse
the snow means she can't see her prey so
how do you find your food when it's
hiding out of sight hunger forces the
Kestrel to take a chance
but his razor-sharp eyesight isn't
enough in these conditions luckily for
the bar now she has another superpower
in her on way
flying blind won't stop her eating
because although she can't see it she
can hear her prey even under the snow
the Kestrel simply doesn't have what it
takes so how does an owls extraordinary
hearing work
some owls have ear tufts but these
feathers aren't used for hearing they're
more about communicating mood in fact
the hours whole head is designed for
listening
its distinctive round face is shaped
like a satellite dish specifically to
detect sound a ring of stiff feathers
channel the Sun towards the true ears
which are hidden at the side of the face
some species of owl have one ear opening
higher than the other this unique
adaptation allows the owl to work out
what height a sound is coming from as
well as the direction sound arriving at
the left ear before it reaches the right
tells the owl it's coming from below
at certain frequencies an owl's hearing
is 10 times more sensitive than ours
this extraordinary skill means this
great gray owl can locate its prey
even when it's out of sight
you